Add Entity Parser plugin docs (#1121)
grammyjs/website: site/docs/plugins/entity-parser.md

---
prev: false
next: false
---

# Entity Parser (`entity-parser`)

Converts [Telegram entities](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#messageentity) to semantic HTML.

## When Should I Use This?

Probably NEVER!

While this plugin can generate HTML, it's generally best to send the text and entities back to Telegram.

Converting them to HTML is only necessary in rare cases where you need to use Telegram-formatted text **outside** of Telegram itself, such as displaying Telegram messages on a website.

> See the [_Cases When It's Better to Not Use This Package_](#cases-when-it-s-better-to-not-use-this-package) section to determine if you have a similar problem to solve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [_Cases When It's Better Not to Use This Package_](#cases-when-it-s-better-to-not-use-this-package) section to determine if you have a similar problem to solve.
```

If you're unsure whether this plugin is the right fit for your use case, please don't hesitate to ask in our [Telegram group](https://t.me/grammyjs).
In most cases, people find they don't actually need this plugin to solve their problems!

## Installation

Run the following command in your terminal based on your runtime or package manager:

::: code-group

```sh:no-line-numbers [Deno]

> deno add @qz/telegram-entities-parser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deno add jsr:@qz/telegram-entities-parser
```

```

```sh:no-line-numbers [Bun]
bunx jsr add @qz/telegram-entities-parser
```

```sh:no-line-numbers [pnpm]
pnpm dlx jsr add @qz/telegram-entities-parser
```

```sh:no-line-numbers [Yarn]
yarn dlx jsr add @qz/telegram-entities-parser
```

```sh:no-line-numbers [npm]
npx jsr add @qz/telegram-entities-parser
```

:::

## Simple Usage

Using this plugin is straightforward.
Here's a quick example:

```ts
import { EntitiesParser } from "@qz/telegram-entities-parser";
import type { Message } from "@qz/telegram-entities-parser/types";

// For better performance, create the instance outside the function.
const entitiesParser = new EntitiesParser();
const parse = (message: Message) => entitiesParser.parse({ message });

bot.on(":text", (ctx) => {
  const html = parse(ctx.msg); // Convert text to HTML string
});

bot.on(":photo", (ctx) => {

>   const html = parse(ctx.msg); // Convert caption to HTML string

Reviewer 2: ref: https://t.me/grammyjs/283562

Author: > ref: https://t.me/grammyjs/283562

> const bot = new Bot("");
> 
> const entitiesParser = new EntitiesParser();
> const parse = (message: Message) => entitiesParser.parse({ message });
> 
> bot.on(":photo", (ctx) => {
> console.log(parse(ctx.msg)); // Перетворення тексту в рядок HTML.
> });
> 
> bot.start();
> 
> 
> 
> This code will fail if I try to send image without caption.

Ouch! It shouldn’t error out if there’s no text or caption. I’ll check it out. Thanks for the heads-up.

});
```

## Advanced Usage

> ### Customize the Output HTML Tag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customizing the Output HTML Tag
```

| `expandable_blockquote` | `CommonEntity`      | `<blockquote class="tg-expandable-blockquote"> ... </blockquote>`                                                                                                                  |
| `hashtag`               | `CommonEntity`      | `<span class="tg-hashtag"> ... </span>`                                                                                                                                            |
| `italic`                | `CommonEntity`      | `<i class="tg-italic"> ... </i>`                                                                                                                                                   |
| `mention`               | `CommonEntity`      | `<a class="tg-mention" href="https://t.me/${username}"> ... </a>`                                                                                                                  |
| `phone_number`          | `CommonEntity`      | `<a class="tg-phone-number" href="tel:${options.text}"> ... </a>`                                                                                                                  |

> | `pre`                   | `PreEntity`         | `<pre class="tg-pre-code"><code class="language-${options.entity.language} ... </code></pre>` or `<pre class="tg-pre"> ... </pre>`                                                 |

Reviewer 3: Ig there's problem with `"` and `>`

`<pre class="tg-pre-code"><code class="language-${options.entity.language}"> ... </code></pre>` or `<pre class="tg-pre"> ... </pre>`

`<pre class="tg-pre-code"><code class="language-${options.entity.language} <- should be '"' and '>'? ...`

Author: Right. PTAL https://github.com/grammyjs/website/pull/1121/commits/e6014efbe2913ba4e8849705eac88306c029429c

| `underline`             | `CommonEntity`      | `<span class="tg-bot-command"> ... </span>`                                                                                                                                        |
| `url`                   | `CommonEntity`      | `<a class="tg-url" href="${options.text}"> ... </a>`                                                                                                                               |

If you are unsure which interface is correct, refer to how the [Renderer](https://github.com/quadratz/telegram-entities-parser/blob/main/src/renderers/renderer.ts) or [RendererHtml](https://github.com/quadratz/telegram-entities-parser/blob/main/src/renderers/renderer_html.ts) is implemented.

### Customize the Text Sanitizer

The output text is sanitized by default to ensure proper HTML rendering and prevent XSS vulnerabilities.

| Input | Output   |
| ----- | -------- |
| `&`   | `&amp;`  |
| `<`   | `&lt;`   |
| `>`   | `&gt;`   |
| `"`   | `&quot;` |
| `'`   | `&#x27;` |

> For example, the result `<b>Bold</b> & <i>Italic</i>` will be sanitized to `<b>Bold</b> &amp; <i>Italic</i>`.

Reviewer 3: I'm actually dumb, but won't it be sanitized to `&lt;b&gt;Bold&lt;/b&gt; &amp; &lt;i&gt;Italic&lt;/i&gt;`
> 
```ts
"&lt;b&gt;Bold&lt;/b&gt; &amp; &lt;i&gt;Italic&lt;/i&gt;".replaceAll("&lt;", "<").replaceAll("&gt;", ">").replaceAll("&amp;", "&")
// `<b>Bold</b> &amp; <i>Italic</i>`
```

Author: This is correct. It only sanitizes the input text, not the result itself. For instance, if the entities are
```json
  "text": "Bold & Italic <script>",
  "entities": [
   {
    "offset": 0,
    "length": 4,
    "type": "bold"
   },
   {
    "offset": 7,
    "length": 6,
    "type": "italic"
   }
  ]
```

The original output will be:
```html
<b>Bold</b> & <i>Italic<i/> <script>
```

Then it will be sanitized into:
```html
<b>Bold</b> &amp; <i>Italic<i/> &lt;script&gt;
```

You can override this behavior by specifying a `textSanitizer` when instantiating the [`EntitiesParser`](https://github.com/quadratz/telegram-entities-parser/blob/main/src/mod.ts):

- If you do not specify `textSanitizer`, it will default to using [`sanitizerHtml`](https://github.com/quadratz/telegram-entities-parser/blob/main/src/utils/sanitizer_html.ts) as the sanitizer.
- Setting the value to `false` will skip sanitization, keeping the output text as the original.
  This is not recommended, as it may result in incorrect rendering and make your application vulnerable to XSS attacks.
  Ensure proper handling if you choose this option.
- If you provide a function, it will be used instead of the default sanitizer.

```ts
const myTextSanitizer: TextSanitizer = (options: TextSanitizerOption): string =>
  // Replace dangerous character

>   options.text.replace(/[&<>"']/g, (match) => {

Reviewer: Is there a reason to avoid `replaceAll`?

Author: No particular reason. The global flag `g` in the regex accomplishes the same thing.

Reviewer: I'm aware, `replaceAll` was introduced because the `g` flag is poorly understood by many developers, and it can easily be forgotten. But anyway, I wasn't saying that the code isn't correct, so we can keep it that way, if you prefer.

Author: I find `replaceAll` to be more readable, so I’ll switch to using it.

Author: ```suggestion
  options.text.replaceAll(/[&<>"']/, (match) => {
```

    switch (match) {
      case "&":
        return "&amp;";
      case "<":
        return "&lt;";
      case ">":
        return "&gt;";
      case '"':
        return "&quot;";
      case "'":
        return "&#x27;";
      default:
        return match;
    }
  });

// Implement the sanitizer.
const entitiesParser = new EntitiesParser({ textSanitizer: myTextSanitizer });
```

> ## Cases When It's Better to Not Use This Package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cases When It's Better Not to Use This Package
```

If you face problems similar to those listed below, you might be able to resolve them without using this package.

> ### Copy and Forward the Same Message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Copying and Forwarding the Same Message
```

Use [`forwardMessage`](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#forwardmessage) to forward messages of any kind.

You can also use the [`copyMessage`](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#copymessage) API, which performs the same action but does not include a link to the original message.
[`copyMessage`](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#copymessage) behaves like copying the message and sending it back to Telegram, making it appear as a regular message rather than a forwarded one.

```ts
bot.on(":text", async (ctx) => {
  // The target chat id to send.
  const chatId = -946659600;
  // Forward the current message without a link to the original message.
  await ctx.copyMessage(chatId);
  // Forward the current message with a link to the original message.
  await ctx.forwardMessage(chatId);
});
```

> ### Reply to Messages with Modified Text Format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Replying to Messages with Modified Text Format
```

You can easily reply to incoming messages using HTML, Markdown, or entities.

```ts
bot.on(":text", async (ctx) => {
  // Reply using HTML
  await ctx.reply("<b>bold</b> <i>italic</i>", { parse_mode: "HTML" });
  // Reply using Telegram Markdown V2
  await ctx.reply("*bold* _italic_", { parse_mode: "MarkdownV2" });
  // Reply with entities
  await ctx.reply("bold italic", {
    entities: [
      { offset: 0, length: 5, type: "bold" },
      { offset: 5, length: 6, type: "italic" },
    ],
  });
});
```

::: tip Use parse-mode for a Better Formatting Experience

> Use the official plugin [`parse-mode`](./parse-mode) for a better experience constructing formatted messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the official [`parse-mode`](./parse-mode) plugin for a better experience constructing formatted messages.
```

:::

## Plugin Summary

- Name: entity-parser
- Package: <https://jsr.io/@qz/telegram-entities-parser>

> - Source: <https://github.com/quadratz/telegram-entities-parser>

Reviewer 3: Why we are not using default construction?

```ts
## Plugin Summary

- Name: string
- [Source](url)
- [Reference](/ref/ref/)
```

Should we stay `- Package: <url>` or change to `- [Package](url)`

Author: This is correct. It only sanitizes the input text, not the result itself. For instance, if the entities are
```json
  "text": "Bold & Italic <script>",
  "entities": [
   {
    "offset": 0,
    "length": 4,
    "type": "bold"
   },
   {
    "offset": 7,
    "length": 6,
    "type": "italic"
   }
  ]
```

The original output will be:
```html
<b>Bold</b> & <i>Italic<i/> <script>
```

Then it will be sanitized into:
```html
<b>Bold</b> &amp; <i>Italic<i/> &lt;script&gt;
```

Reviewer 4: Also, the name of the plugins is usually put in back quotes.

Author: Good catch. I will make a separate PQ for that.

Author: Or should I push the changes to this PQ and sync them to all languages myself since it does not require translation?
```md
- Name: `entity-parser`
- [Package](https://jsr.io/@qz/telegram-entities-parser)
- [Source](https://github.com/quadratz/telegram-entities-parser)
```

Reviewer: Yeah feel free to do taht

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/grammyjs/website/pull/1121/commits/4c41245006594d9daacdbe38a81b7177acb8c552 and https://github.com/grammyjs/website/pull/1121/commits/d7377d1673fa06fc847052c8921400f7de59281c

---
prev: false
next: false
---

# Entity Parser (`entity-parser`)

> Converts [Telegram entities](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#messageentity)
> to semantic HTML.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Converts [Telegram entities](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#messageentity) to semantic HTML.
```

## When Should I Use This?

Probably NEVER!

While this plugin can generate HTML, it's generally best to send the text and entities back to Telegram.

Converting them to HTML is only necessary in rare cases where you need to use Telegram-formatted text **outside** of Telegram itself, such as displaying Telegram messages on a website.

See the [_Cases When It's Better to Not Use This Package_](#cases-when-it-s-better-to-not-use-this-package) section to determine if you have a similar problem to solve.

> 
> If you're unsure whether this plugin is the right fit for your use case, please don't hesitate to ask in our [Telegram group](https://t.me/grammyjs).
> In most cases, people find they don't actually need this plugin to solve their problems!

Reviewer 5: It is already made clear above that the plugin is not needed most of the times.

```suggestion
```

Author: Can we keep the offer to help?
```suggestion
If you're unsure whether this plugin is the right fit for your use case, please don't hesitate to ask in our [Telegram group](https://t.me/grammyjs).
```

Reviewer: > Can we keep the offer to help?

IMO yes.

Also, it's good to have a big fat warning. However, it now is not quite clear what the plugin actually does.

In other words, when reading this, I have now understood that I _probably_ don't want to use it. When _should_ I use it? This needs to be improved.

In my opinion, the main source of confusion is that the plugin never actually parses anything. It generates HTML, so it should rather be called entity-renderer or maybe even include HTML in the name somewhere.

Author: > so it should rather be called entity-renderer or maybe even include HTML in the name somewhere

`entity-to-html`, perhaps?

> In other words, when reading this, I have now understood that I probably don't want to use it. When should I use it? This needs to be improved.

This plugin simply renders entities into HTML, yes. However, my concern is that people might misuse it to convert entities, make edits, and then send them back to Telegram, whereas they should be working with the entities directly. Maybe I need some help to rephrase this for the doc more effectively.

Reviewer: I understand the concern and I actually share it, too. You say this:

> is only necessary in rare cases where you need to use Telegram-formatted text **outside** of Telegram itself

And that's a good explanation, but it needs more structure. The current docs effectively say

- don't use it
- use it for entities outside of TG
- don't use it without asking

and I feel like it could be made a little clearer. But maybe I'm just tired. I'll try to suggest an improvement tomorrow if you feel like my words still don't really make sense.

## Installation

Run the following command in your terminal based on your runtime or package manager:

::: code-group

```sh:no-line-numbers [Deno]
deno add @qz/telegram-entities-parser
```

```sh:no-line-numbers [Bun]
bunx jsr add @qz/telegram-entities-parser
```

```sh:no-line-numbers [pnpm]
pnpm dlx jsr add @qz/telegram-entities-parser
```

```sh:no-line-numbers [Yarn]
yarn dlx jsr add @qz/telegram-entities-parser
```

```sh:no-line-numbers [npm]
npx jsr add @qz/telegram-entities-parser
```

:::

## Simple Usage

Using this plugin is straightforward.
Here's a quick example:

```ts
import { EntitiesParser } from "@qz/telegram-entities-parser";
import type { Message } from "@qz/telegram-entities-parser/types";

// For better performance, create the instance outside the function.
const entitiesParser = new EntitiesParser();
const parse = (message: Message) => entitiesParser.parse({ message });

bot.on(":text", (ctx) => {
  const html = parse(ctx.msg); // Convert text to HTML string
});

bot.on(":photo", (ctx) => {
  const html = parse(ctx.msg); // Convert caption to HTML string
});
```

> ## Advanced usage

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Advanced Usage
```

### Customize the Output HTML Tag

This package converts entities into semantic HTML, adhering to best practices and standards as closely as possible.

> However, you might find that the provided output is not exactly what you expected.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
However, the provided output might not always be what you expect.
```

### Customize the Text Sanitizer

The output text is sanitized by default to ensure proper HTML rendering and prevent XSS vulnerabilities.

| Input | Output   |
| ----- | -------- |
| `&`   | `&amp;`  |
| `<`   | `&lt;`   |
| `>`   | `&gt;`   |
| `"`   | `&quot;` |
| `'`   | `&#x27;` |

For example, the result `<b>Bold</b> & <i>Italic</i>` will be sanitized to `<b>Bold</b> &amp; <i>Italic</i>`.

You can override this behavior by specifying a `textSanitizer` when instantiating the [`EntitiesParser`](https://github.com/quadratz/telegram-entities-parser/blob/main/src/mod.ts):

- If you do not specify `textSanitizer`, it will default to using [`sanitizerHtml`](https://github.com/quadratz/telegram-entities-parser/blob/main/src/utils/sanitizer_html.ts) as the sanitizer.
- Setting the value to `false` will skip sanitization, keeping the output text as the original.
  This is not recommended, as it may result in incorrect rendering and make your application vulnerable to XSS attacks.
  Ensure proper handling if you choose this option.
- If you provide a function, it will be used instead of the default sanitizer.

> 
> Example,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

  // Replace dangerous character
  options.text.replace(/[&<>"']/g, (match) => {
    switch (match) {
      case "&":
        return "&amp;";
      case "<":
        return "&lt;";
      case ">":
        return "&gt;";
      case '"':
        return "&quot;";
      case "'":
        return "&#x27;";
      default:
        return match;
    }
  });

// Implement the sanitizer.
const entitiesParser = new EntitiesParser({ textSanitizer: myTextSanitizer });
```

## Cases When It's Better to Not Use This Package

If you face problems similar to those listed below, you might be able to resolve them without using this package.

### Copy and Forward the Same Message

Use [`forwardMessage`](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#forwardmessage) to forward messages of any kind.

You can also use the [`copyMessage`](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#copymessage) API, which performs the same action but does not include a link to the original message.
[`copyMessage`](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#copymessage) behaves like copying the message and sending it back to Telegram, making it appear as a regular message rather than a forwarded one.

> 
> Example:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

```ts
bot.on(":text", async (ctx) => {

>   // The target chat id to send.
>   const chatId = "-946659600";

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  // The target chat id to send.
  const chatId = -946659600;
```

  // Forward the current message without a link to the original message.
  await ctx.copyMessage(chatId);
  // Forward the current message with a link to the original message.
  await ctx.forwardMessage(chatId);
});
```

### Reply to Messages with Modified Text Format

You can easily reply to incoming messages using HTML, Markdown, or entities.

```ts
bot.on(":text", async (ctx) => {
  // Reply using HTML
  await ctx.reply("<b>bold</b> <i>italic</i>", { parse_mode: "HTML" });
  // Reply using Telegram Markdown V2
  await ctx.reply("*bold* _italic_", { parse_mode: "MarkdownV2" });
  // Reply with entities
  await ctx.reply("bold italic", {
    entities: [
      { offset: 0, length: 5, type: "bold" },
      { offset: 5, length: 6, type: "italic" },
    ],
  });
});
```

::: tip Use parse-mode for a Better Formatting Experience

> grammY also provides a useful plugin called [`parse-mode`](./parse-mode) for better message formatting.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Use the official plugin [`parse-mode`](./parse-mode) for a better experience constructing formatted messages.
```

> You can format messages like this:
> 
> ```ts
> ctx.replyFmt(fmt`${bold("bold")} ${italic("italic")}`);
> ```
> 
> [Check it out](./parse-mode) if you're interested.
> :::

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
:::
```
